- [Instructor] Retries can be configured to automatically
retry a step in an attempt to recover from an exception.
This capability increases the resilience of our job
and can help in situations
where the job could potentially recover
from the exception it experienced.
This capability is very beneficial
in situations where some external resource like a service
may be experiencing sporadic issues.
Let's take a look at how we can configure a step
to incorporate retry logic.
Configuring a step for retries
is very similar to configuring it for skips.
So if we navigate to our chunk-based step,
you'll see our configurations in place four skips already.
Now we're going to be using the FaultTolerantStepBuilder,
so we'll leave our call to faultTolerant in place.
We are going to replace our skip method
and in this case,
we're going to replace it with the retry method.
The retry method requires us to specify an exception,
that would cause the framework
to reattempt processing of a particular item.
So in this case, if we throw an order processing exception,
which is the exception
thrown from our tracked Order Item processor,
then we will reattempt processing of that particular item.
Now, just like the configuration for a skip,
we're able to set a retry limit.
Now this retry limit is a little bit different.
Instead of applying for the entire step,
it applies for the particular item.
So in this case,
we're going to get three shots at processing an item.
Once we hit that third try,
if we fail, the entire job is going to fail.
Okay, and then we're also able
to configure a retry listener.
So let's go ahead and build that.
I'm going to create a new class, the custom retry listener.
So here we see a stub for its constructor.
And what we'll do is hit control one,
and then create that class.
And then we're going to add
an interface that this class will implement.
It's going to be the retry listener interface.
And so we'll select the org.springframework retry listener.
And then we'll go ahead and hit OK.
So once we hit finish,
our new class is going to be built
and here you're going to see
the contract for that retry listener interface.
And what's going to happen
within these three particular methods,
the first time that we do a retry,
it's going to invoke the open method the last time.
So basically, after we fail that third attempt,
it's going to invoke close.
And then anytime we would fail on an actual retry,
we would invoke on air.
So let's just add a little bit of configuration here.
So the first thing we're going to do,
we're just going to check
to make sure that we are doing a retry.
So we'll get the retry count and make sure it's above zero.
And in that case,
I'm just going to print out to the console
that we are attempting a retry.
And then we need to return true here
in order to continue processing.
And then we're just going to add
a little bit of console output within the on error message.
So here, we'll do something similar.
We're going to within the context, get the retry count.
And if that retry count is greater than zero,
then we're going to go ahead
and print out some console output.
We'll just say failure occurred requiring a retry.
So let's go ahead, we'll fix that spelling error.
Just to make sure everything's good.
Alright, so there we have our custom retry listener.
And we can go over
and save our job configuration, everything's in place.
And then we're going to turn up
our volatility here a little bit.
So we're going to, let's say,
give it a 50% shot of failure.
So in this first run,
I'm really attempting to fail
because we hit that fourth retry.
So let's see what happens.
We'll go ahead and start the job.
Alright, so the job's kicking off.
And you'll notice if we take a look,
we did get a four three try.
So there we see that item 53
failed on its retry, its final retry,
and that failed our job.
So by turning that volatility up,
we were able to fail pretty quickly.
Now, let's go ahead,
let's turn it down some.
I'm just going to put it at 5%.
Probably unlikely that we're going to fail here.
So let me go ahead, I'll clear the console.
And then we'll go ahead and run our job.
And let's see what happens this time.
Okay, so you can see
that we did successfully complete the job,
and we only had one retry,
it looks like the order for order ID 421,
failed to process the first time,
and then it successfully processed the second time,
once our retry logic kicked in.
So here we saw another one of the mechanisms
within spring batch,
that allow us to add resiliency to our batch jobs.
And if you're a batch job operator, that's very important
so you don't get those phone calls at night.